# polar

## Project goal
The objective is to gain insights into my workouts by analyzing data from my Polar watch.

### Methods
* Data visualization
* Data wrangling
* Linear regression

### Technologies
* Python
* Pandas
* Matplotlib
* Statsmodels

## Project description
I extracted data from my Polar watch and after cleaning the dataset I built linear regression model to predict how many kilocalories I will burn during a workout. I used variables from the original data and features that I engineered by my self. The results of the regression can be found in the `mdl_results.txt` file. For illustrations see the `img` folder. I strongly advise you to view the `*.ipnyb` version.

## Summary
* I downloaded data generated by my Polar watch that tracks `heart rate` and estimates burned `kilocalories` during workouts.

* The data came in the form of `.json` files which were read, transformed and cleaned with `pandas`. 

* The clean dataset contains `283` workouts over a nearly one year period during which I burned roughly `12kg` of body fat.

* After further transforming the data, I find that the `duration` of a workout and `kilocalorie`'s burned have a `0.92` correlation. 

* Several linear regressions were performed. 

* `kilocalories ~ duration` on the entire dataset achieved `R^2 = 0.85` and `RMSE = 79`.

* Regressions were performed on subsets of the data, specifically by sport - the highest slope is 10.14 `kiloCalories` per minute.

<!-- <center> -->
| Formula                  | Sport             |   Intercept |   Slope |   R squared |
|:-------------------------|:------------------|------------:|--------:|------------:|
| kiloCalories ~ totalTime | treadmill_running |      -21.23 |   10.14 |        0.96 |
| kiloCalories ~ totalTime | cycling           |       -9.73 |    7.44 |        0.98 |
| kiloCalories ~ totalTime | walking           |       12.59 |    6.95 |        0.82 |
| kiloCalories ~ totalTime | strength_training |      -12.73 |    6.76 |        0.44 |
<!-- </center> -->

* A `linear mixed model with random effects` was created and validated. It achieved a `RMSE = 61` and normal looking residuals.

* The biggest errors made by the mixed model was on strength training data points.